hi I'm Kim of Kim Doyle comm where I
help business owners create content
that's actually fun to create and
converts your audience into customers
and you're watching a hundred days of
SEO woo what's up everybody if you're
new here welcome to a hundred days of
SEO I am
Brendan Hufford I have radically changed
my life with SEO with search engine
optimization and that's what we're gonna
be talking about today the middle of
winter and I'm outside here in Chicago
it's so cold but like what a good shot
what a good shower at the city
oh I freaking love living here it
doesn't matter how cold it is outside
today we are gonna talk about what SEO
actually is I'm gonna go inside I'm
gonna get warm we're gonna break it down
you've been wondering what SEO is how it
works in 2019 I'm gonna break it down
for you let's get it
[Music]
what's up everybody
Brendon Hufford we're inside or warm
let's talk about this what the heck is
SEO so you hear a lot of definitions of
SEO is it links is it content is it
branding is it UX or site speed it yes
it's all of those things but it's also
not in with over 200 ranking factors it
can be so so confusing and in two
minutes here in this short quick video
in two minutes I'm going to explain
exactly what SEO is so let's put two
minutes up on the clock two minutes on
the clock
let's get into it so I want to start out
by giving you my definition of SEO based
on all of my client work based on my
personal projects based on my consulting
based on being the SEO director of click
studios and having clients that range
from local Chicago companies to
$100,000,000 venture-backed startups for
me SEO and for my clients and all of my
work is really about solving problems
sorry I'm yelling it's about solving
problems just super passionate about
this you need to solve people's problems
you need to reverse engineer what are
they actually looking for you're gonna
hear me talk again and again about
search intent what do they really want
when they type a phrase into Google what
are they really looking for and then
making sure that we use our expertise
and our research abilities to make sure
that that information is there when they
want it that is what SEO is but you
don't have to just take my word for it
here's a couple other definitions of SEO
Glen Alsip of detail calm and Viper
chill calm has probably one of the best
definitions of SEO that's closest to
mine Glen says SEO to me if given an
explanation that I'm interested in is
part reverse-engineering algorithms part
reverse-engineering human nature it's
about using logic and gut to do what you
think should matter and then relying on
data to correct yourself in due course
Glen's definition is fantastic but I
also want to feature some other people
let's take a look at what Ross Hudgens
of siege media's because it Ross says
about SEO Ross says SEO is search engine
optimization the act of optimizing your
website to show up higher in search
engines at the core of the two biggest
ranking factors for this are content
and links matching user expectation for
that content and being perceived as
authoritative enough for the search
engines to return as SEO is we're all at
a basic level optimizing for these
things at a more advanced level we think
about we optimize for the 200-plus
ranking factors Google as mentioned this
is just I'm not gonna keep reading it to
you but this is a great very technical
definition unlike Glen's definition or
even my definition talking to you who
really loved SEO and they wanted you
want to know more about us you know
Ross's definition is perfect for people
who don't understand it at all
we went a little bit over time but I
hope this has been helpful for you I
would love it if you're watching on
YouTube if you would subscribe to this
channel as we continue along the hundred
days of SEO project if you're listening
on the podcast please subscribe whatever
kind of podcasts while you're listening
on and the most important thing in here
is I don't have a call to action I just
want I just want you to learn I want you
to subscribe so you can continue to
learn more about SEO and see a radical
change in your life just as I have in
mind that is a mission of the 100 days
of SEO project to help more people make
changes in their life and their business
using this marketing technique I've been
Brendan Hufford don't forget to work
hard be nice people and don't get too
lost trying to create something that
matters
[Music]